Acknowledgments

The OpenStack Foundation supported the creation of this book with plane tickets to
Austin, lodging (including one adventurous evening without power after a wind?
storm), and delicious food. For about USD $10,000, we could collaborate intensively
for a week in the same room at the Rackspace Austin office. The authors are all mem?
bers of the OpenStack Foundation, which you can join. Go to the  Foundation web
siteat http://openstack.org/join.
We want to acknowledge our excellent host Rackers at Rackspace in Austin:
• Emma Richards of Rackspace Guest Relations took excellent care of our lunch
orders and even set aside a pile of sticky notes that had fallen off the walls.
• Betsy Hagemeier, a Fanatical Executive Assistant, took care of a room reshuffle
and helped us settle in for the week.
• The Real Estate team at Rackspace in Austin, also known as &quot;The Victors,&quot; were
super responsive.
• Adam Powell in Racker IT supplied us with bandwidth each day and second
monitors for those of us needing more screens.
• On Wednesday night we had a fun happy hour with the Austin OpenStack Meet?
up group and Racker Katie Schmidt took great care of our group.
We also had some excellent input from outside of the room. Tim Bell from CERN
gave us feedback on the outline before we started and reviewed it mid-week. Sebas?
tien Han has written excellent blogs and generously gave his permission for re-use.
Oisin Feeley read it, made some edits, and provided emailed feedback right when we
asked.
Inside the book sprint room with us each day was our book sprint facilitator Adam
Hyde. Without his tireless support and encouragement, we would have thought a
book of this scope was impossible in five days. Adam has proven the book sprint
xi
method effectively again and again. He creates both tools and faith in collaborative
authoring at http://www.booksprints.net/.
We couldn’t have pulled it off without so much supportive help and encouragement.
xii  |  Acknowledgments
Document Change History
This version of the document replaces and obsoletes all previous versions. The fol?
lowing table describes the most recent changes:
Revision Date Summary of Changes
2013-05-13
• Updated description of availability zones.
2013-04-02
• Fixes to ensure samples fit in page size and notes are formatted.
2013-03-22
• Stopped chunking in HTML output.
2013-03-20
• Editorial changes.
• Added glosstermtags to glossary terms.
• Cleaned up formatting in code examples.
• Removed future tense.
2013-03-11
• Moved files to OpenStack github repository.
